# Development Log
#### The week of 11/08 - 11/14:<br/>
> The project proposal was not accepted until the latter half of the week, so not much progress was made during this period. We committed a handful of things to the repository, such as the .cpp and .h files for our map class. The map class was declared in the header file and its private data members were also added. Additionally, documentation was added to the members of the map class in the form of doc comments.

#### The week of 11/15 - 11/21 (and Thanksgiving break):
> Since the week of 11/22-11/28 (Thanksgiving break) is not a part of the school semester, any work done during that time will be included here. A constructor to manually create a map object by passing it a vector of node names and a 2d vector representing the adjacency matrix was added for testing purposes in the BFS branch, and was later added to the main branch. The map class’s implementation of the BFS method and its corresponding tests on small and large scale maps was also completed in the BFS branch. Other than that, data loading is started on the Parsing branch, but no work is done other than importing the OpenFlight routes dataset. Finally, the implementation of Dijkstra’s algorithm for finding the shortest path between two nodes was completed, but only its smaller scale test cases were completed.

#### The week of 11/29 - 12/05:
> During this week the team worked on completing the BFS algorithm. The default BFS algorithm returns the BFS of all nodes in the graph. It creates two vectors, "visited" and "final", that keep track of visited nodes and the final return vector containing all the nodes from the BFS traversal. The other BFS algorithm is the method that returns a vector of nodes representing the BFS for a specific connected component. It takes in a size_t that is the index of the beginning node and a vector of bools that represent the visited nodes. This function is used in conjunction with the default BFS() function. After completing the BFS implementation we thoroughly tested it and merged the BFS branch to main. On top of that, the team also finished parsing the data into three things: a vector of airports which will represent the nodes of the graph, a map that keeps track of source and destination airports to create edges of the adjacency matrix, and a map that tracks how many times a route occurs that will be used to calculate the weight of the edges. These can be found in the Map class. Initial test cases on data loading are added using smaller datasets. Additionally, the basic implementation of the betweenness centrality algorithm, contained in the function calculateCentralNode(), was completed but lacked thorough tests.

#### The week of 12/06 - 12/12
> This week in the parsing branch, some data structures were changed to improve efficiency. Each time a line is parsed from the dataset, the find function is called to see whether a route has existed or not, whether a certain airport is already added, etc. Since find in O(1) lookup time in unordered maps and O(n) in maps, the maps are replaced with unordered maps to improve runtime. Moreover, instead of checking whether the source and destination airports are already added to the vector of nodes after each line, an unordered set is used because, by definition, sets do not allow overlapping elements. After all the lines are read, the contents of the set is then pushed back to the node vector. More exhaustive tests were also added and the branch was merged to main. The betweenness centrality tests were also completed and the shortest path / betweenness centrality branch was merged into main. Finally, main.cpp was filled in, the results document was completed, and the final presentation was filmed.
